So that's one thing that happened.
We have these three roll ups and
let me make it a little bit more
clear why I call these roll ups.
I wanna create a new folder,
a new file here.
You don't have to do this and
it's not in the notes,
but, I just wanna give you
something that will help this land.
All right, so
I have a function here called subtract.
And I could go into my index Ts,
and at the bottom,
it could say export,
subtract from subtract.
And I'm gonna run this report again.
I know I forgot to step here, all right?
I said this out loud, but
I'm forgetting my own advice here.
The input for
API extractor is declaration files.
I'm reading that index DTS for
my dist folder.
And then API extractors taking that in and
making new DTS files.
So I missed the build step, right?
I don't have in my dist folder,
I don't have anything in here that looks
like my subtract file that I just created.
So I could do yarn build,
I should see subtract pop up, and
I do and now let`s run this.
Okay, so there we go.
We see this subtract function,
it appears in these files directly,
there's subtract up here, right?
It appears in these files directly as if
everything is coming from this one module.
So now it's kinda like react where
we're importing, create element.
We're importing the react types,
like react.function component.
All of that's coming from one module,
even though my source code
is organized differently.
There's no trace of this subtract
being a separate module of some sort.
That's what makes this a roll up, right,
we're not seeing references
to other files here.
We're seeing everything in one file,
all together,
that's why this is called a roll up.
I got a warning here as well.
And this is saying,
I am missing a release tag.
And what it's telling me is actually,
this is a great error message.
Subtract is exported by the package,
but it's missing a release tag.
It's encouraging me to say, look,
is this an alpha test,
a beta test, public, or internal?
Let's make it beta.
One little tricky thing here, you're gonna
wanna have these dashes between the name
of the argument and the description.
This tool is particular about that.
So we'll say calculate the difference
between two numbers, and
then we'll mark it as beta.
If we run this again, we should see,
it may complain about other things, but
it shouldn't complain about that anymore.
Sorry, once again, I forgot my build step.
Okay, so now I'm seeing something
different and this is super cool.
I am seeing a notification that
I've changed my public API surface.
Something I did in this code change.
It wasn't just a trivial bug fix, I have
changed what I'm exporting in some way.
So now it's time for me to show you
another thing that gets created by
this and it's in that etc folder.
This is a markdown file and
it's called an API report.
I'll show you the rendered version cuz
this is what you would see if you're
browsing GitHub or something.
So it's effectively showing you what
your public API surface looks like.
Now in my TypeScript libraries,
I have this built automatically, so
every pull request comes
with a change to this file.
So that when you're reviewing your code,
you can have a discussion around
maybe we decide we're gonna make b
like the second argument, subtract,
maybe it becomes optional.
Let's see what that would look like.
We're gonna make a commit, API extractor,
basic setup and pushing it.
So let's make that second thing
optional and let's say, actually,
we can make it default to 0.
And I don't need to specify that it's
a number now that it has an initializer.
So that's the change I made.
And let's say I build and
maybe through a Git hook of some sort.
We run this API extractor,
we generate this new API report.
Here's what you would
see in a code review.
You'd see this.
Well, look at that,
like this makes it super clear
in ways that might not be evident just
looking at the source code itself.
I mean here it's a bit obvious, but
I'm sure you can imagine that at scale,
small little changes.
It's sometimes unclear as to
what the bottom line is for
your API surface, is this a backwards
compatible change to make?
Raise your hand if you think it is?
I'm raising my hand,
it's pretty good hint.
Look, all the hands went up.
[LAUGH] Say it's amazing I as the teacher,
I can sort of make everything true.
So, this is a backwards compatible change,
because if I was passing
two numbers before,
I can still do that, and it's fine.
I am opening up a new pointless use case,
where I'll take your number and
subtract zero from it, like not the best
improvement to make to this library.
But everything that used to work
continues to work as it did.
So I would say all right,
we can call this a minor release.
But if it were in the other direction,
if it were optional and
is now required, that's a major version.
It's very easy to see that when
you have this like single report
on what your exploited API looks like.
This is a tool that I didn't
even know I needed this much.
But I it makes it a lot
easier to open source things,
because I can trust the community
to make contributions.
And it's very clear to me when
something's not gonna affect the public
API all that much, and so
we can take a little more of a risk there.
As opposed to setting a new precedent,
like whatever change we make,
we must forever ensure that
that continues to work.
That's a big challenge, right?
So this makes it super clear what
kind of things going on there.
So, one last thing,
there's this temp folder.
So it contains two files.
First, we have a mark down file that
looks just like the API report.
This is an identical file right now.
And then we have a JSON file.
This is the input.
This JSON file is what we're
gonna use to make documentation.
You're gonna wanna Git
ignore this temp folder.
And the reason is,
it is more of a staging area.
That is only important
in a transient sense,
sort of a midpoint in a more
meaningful workflow and
we don't wanna check it in.
So I'm gonna add this to
the bottom of my Git ignore temp.
And then I can do git rm temp,
get rid of it.
Part of the problem is I already made
a little commit with that stuff, so and
I'm gonna rerun the extractor
just to get those files back.
But Git ignored this time.
I believe I have to do this, okay?
So let me explain how this normally works.
dash dash local, that's something
you're gonna wanna do rarely,
not rarely, but
you're gonna wanna do it with intent.
Normally you'll run this without
the dash dash local thing.
So let's say I went back to
the original implementation here.
I believe this command
is going to exit zero.
Nope, it didn't.
Why didn't it?
Cuz I didn't build,
I keep forgetting this step.
Yarn builds cuz we've gotta make
our declaration file, run again,
should exit zero.
Commit, exit one, sorry,
I meant it should exit unsuccessfully.
It's exiting unsuccessfully
because the API surface it found
through analyzing my code Is different
than what exists in that etc folder.
So this is something you could run
in continuous integration, where
you'd be able to detect that this is
a change that users are gonna feel.
This is a change in how this library
presents itself to the outside world.
You could run this almost
like you'd run your tests.
Dash dash local effectively means well,
let's see how they documented.
But it means I have intentionally
made a change to the API.
And I wish to set that as the new sort of
standard, the new human approved thing.
So let's see how they describe this.
It indicates that it's running as part of
a local build on the developers machine.
And it disables validation that
would normally be performed for
a production build.
For example, it automatically copies
the API report into that etc folder and
sets it as the new approved version.
That's why we ran it first, right?
But normally you don't wanna
make a change to this and
you wanna check it in with your code.
And then in CI, you'd run this task
without the dash, dash local flag.
And that would give you the assurance that
the code change that you're looking and
the API report that came with it
are the total extent of
the changes that user should see.
Otherwise this will fail and it should.
Pretty cool stuff and
it really helps you find out what's
going on with your API surface.